# Technologies Behind Progressive Web Apps

There are two fundamental pieces of technology that enable progressive web apps to be reliable, fast and engaging: **Service Workers** and the **Web App Manifest File**. Let's take a look at Service Workers first.

---

## Service Workers

Most Web Apps are built on a client-server model. Without a server, there is no web app. But service workers change that.

Service Workers are a progressive enhancement for the network staff, and **sit between the browser and the server, acting as a client side proxy written in JavaScript**. That means:

* **You can cache assets locall.** *So no matter what kind of network the user's connected to, apps load near instantly.*

* *Apps can even work offline because **the service worker will respond to network requests.***

* *Once a service worker is registered, it can do more than just act as a client side proxy.* **You can define what events will wake it up.**

* *Events like push messages can wake up a service worker and* **re-engage the user with notifications.**

* **Data can be seamlessly synced to your servers when a network connection is restored.** *And what's amazing is that they don't rely on the web app being open in a tab or even the browser being open on mobile.*

Service Workers are to Progressive Web Apps as XMLHttpRequest was to Ajax. They give progressive web apps the power to exist beyond the browser.

---

## Web App Manifest File

The second fundamental piece of technology is the web app manifest file, which gives you the ability to control how your app appears to the user in areas where they would expect to see apps. And, more importantly, how they can launch it. When a set of heuristics are met, the web app install banner will even prompt users to add your app to their home screen. Then, when the user opens it from the home screen, it opens full-screen, no browser UI. And it's a top level app in the task switcher. So it feels just like any other app.
