# Update your project

It's time to update the weather app again, to store the list of cities that the user wants to keep track of. Here's what I want you to do:

1. Take a look at a few of the storage libraries and pick the one that you think will work best for you. I've made some recommendation in the instructor notes but you can use anything you like.

2. Add a function that will save the list of cities the user has added and hook it up so that it saves whenever the user adds a city.

3. Update the app so that on start up it checks to see if the user has any saved cities. If it does, get the latest data for those cities and update the cards for those cities. If it doesn't simulate the server injecting the data into your app JS file and render that.

When you've completed these steps, your app should show the weather for the default city, for the first time the app loads, and allow the user to add new cities. But then when we load it the user sees a list of cities that they want to know about.

Be sure to compare your app to the link in the instructor notes below and make sure it works exactly the same. And don't forget to check your app on multiple browsers.

---

# Instructor notes

For this step, I decided to use localForage. The API is simple and easy to use, and it takes JavaScript objects, no need to JSONify anything.

In index.html, I added a link to the localForage script.

```
<script src="/scripts/localforage-1.4.0.js"></script>
```

Then, in app.js, I created a saveSelectedCities function that saves the array of selected cities using the localforage.setItem function.

```
app.saveSelectedCities = function() {
    window.localforage.setItem('selectedCities', app.selectedCities);
};
```

I also had to update the click event handler for the add button in the new city dialogue to save the selected cities when the user hits add.

```
document.getElementById('butAddCity').addEventListener('click', function() {
  var select = document.getElementById('selectCityToAdd');
  var selected = select.options[select.selectedIndex];
  var key = selected.value;
  var label = selected.textContent;
  app.getForecast(key, label);
  app.selectedCities.push({key: key, label: label});
★ app.saveSelectedCities();
  app.toggleAddDialog(false);
});
```

To get content on screen, I called the localforage.getItem function and asked for the list of selectedCities. If there is one, I save that to app.selectedCities and then got the forecast for each city by iterating over the array. If the user didn't have any selected cities, I updated the UI with the injected weather forecast, then saved the list of cities to the localForage.

```
document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
    window.localforage.getItem('selectedCities', function(err, cityList) {
       if (cityList) {
           app.selectedCities = cityList;
           app.selectedCities.forEach(function(city) {
               app.getForecast(city.key, city.label);
           });
       } else {
           app.updateForecastCard(injectedForecast);
           app.selectedCities = [
               {key: injectedForecast.key, label: injectedForecast.label}
           ];
           app.saveSelectedCities();
       }
    });
});
```
**:warning: I wrapped all of that in a DOMContentLoaded event handler, because I need to make sure that localForage has been loaded before I can make calls to it.**
