# Get data on screen as fast as possible

Progressive Web Apps should start fast and be usable immediately. So far, your weather app starts quickly, but it's not usable. There's no data there. To be useful, it needs data. Let's take a look at how we can get the data we need on the user's first visit to our app. Then, render it on screen as quickly as possible.

## Server-side rendering

While server-side rendering is normally the fastest way to go, it introduces a number of extra challenges for a progressive web app that uses the app shell model because the data is already embedded in the user interface.

If the app caches the data as it was served, including the embedded data, it can quickly become stale and instead of the dreaded flash of unstyled content, you'll have a flash of outdated content.

## Get Data via AJAX request

The easiest but also the slowest method to get and render the data we need is AJAX. Not only does it require an extra HTTP request but the request won't be fired until after the app's JavaScript has been downloaded and run.

On a fast WiFi connection or even 3G, it's no big deal. But on 2G or even 3G it could add a second or more to the app.

## Inject the Data

The final strategy we'll look at is a combination of server-side rendering and making an AJAX request. Instead of pre-rendering the data into the markup, the server injects the data into the app's JavaScript.

Because it keeps the data separate from the user interface, it works well with the app shell model.

We've eliminated the need for an extra HTTP request. But, we still need to run a little bit of JavaScript in order to display the data.

Then, when things have cached, we can ignore that bit and easily make an AJAX request for more recent data.
