# Storage

Almost every app needs a way to store data. It may be as simple as a few user preferences or more complex relational datasets. Because of this, there isn't a one-size-fits-all storage mechanism that works in all cases. Let's take a look at a few different techniques that you can use and their advantages and disadvantages.

## Local Storage

Local Storage is a simple name/value pair storage mechanism that is very easy to use and available almost everywhere. But its API is synchronous, meaning calls to it are completely blocking and it can cause significant performance problems.

In addition, it's not transactional. So if you try and do two writes at the same time you'll end up overwriting something important. For that reason, unless you're prototyping something, avoid it for anything that's going to see the light of day.

## Caches Object

The new caches object has potential. It's very easy to use, it's asynchronous, and it's fast. But there are two big catches.

First, like local storage, it's transactional. So it's possible that there is a risk of overwriting data.

The other issue is that the caches object isn't available everywhere yet. So you're going to need to feature detect and potentially polyfill for some browsers.

## IndexedDB

Finally, there's IndexedDB. It's fast, allows you to store complex data, asynchronous and transactional. And it's essentially available everywhere. It's likely the best fit for any important user data.

The biggest drawback to using IndexedDB is its ugly API, with lots of setup required and call backs to handle. There are a few good repo libraries out there that will obstruct away some of the ugliness.

Mozilla has published localForage, which provides a local storage like API. Or Lovefield, which provides SQL-like APIs.

---

# It's not permanent

One thing to keep in mind: browsers make no promises that they'll keep data around forever. Data can be removed without warning. For that reason, it's important to sync critical data to the cloud as soon as possible.

The other advantage of doing this is when the user signs into your app on another device, their settings, data and other information is right there for them, and they can pick up right where they left off.
